Maven is a project management tool which can manage complete build lifecycle.
Maven simplifies and standardizes the project build process.

Build process will be 
	compile
	testing 
	library dependency 
	distribution 
	documentation 
	deployment 
	
POM.xml 
	- project object modal 
	- In this file we put all the maven configurations.

Maven folder structure 
├── pom.xml
└── src
    └── main
        ├── java
        │   └── com
        │       └── yourorganization
        │           └── maven_sample
        │               └── LogicPositivizer.java
        └── resources
            └── Blabla.java
└── target	

Maven build life cycle 
A build lifecyle is a sequence of task used to build the application.
	1. validate - validate thr project is correct and all the necessary information is 	  
	              available. 		
	2. compile - compiles the source code and create obeject code in target folder.
	3. Test    - Test the compiled source code using unit testing (JUnit)
	4. Package - All the compiled code is packages in to distribution format which is jar, war  
	             and ear.	
    5. integration-test - deplpy the package/build/artifact into an environment where 
	                      integration-test can be executed  
    6. verify  - verify the package is valid and it meets the configured criteria or not.
	7. install - install/copy the package into the local repository.
    8. deploy  - If configured, deploy the application/build to integration or relese environment.
	
Maven repository
	Maven repository is a directory to store all the project jars, libraries, plugins and any artifacts related to project.	
		1. Local Repository
			- Is a local folder/directory on your machine (where we have installed or running 
			  maven)
			- The default location of maven local repository is HOME_DIRECTORY/.m2 directory
			- .m2 is created when ever we run mvn command for the first time.
			
		2. Central Repository
			- Maven central repository is managed by maven community and it contains large number 
			  commonly used libraries.
			- We can also publish our own libraries to central repository.
		    - The default location is https://repo1.maven.org/maven2			
			
		3. Remote Repository
			- A maven repository setup inside a company or a project related repository but not   
			  public.
			- This is a company maintained reposiroty which can be accessed only inside the 	  
			  company network.
	
Maven dependency Search sequence 
	1. Search in local repo.
	2. Search in central repo.
    3. Search in remote repo.

	Maven stops searching once it finds the library.	
	
groupId
	Is the unique project name or organization name 
		- org (organization) 
		- com (commercial) 
			- company name 
				- project/module
artifactId
	IS the name of the project / name of build 
	
versionId
	Is the version number of the project 
	
properties 
	- To set default encoding type 
	- To set the maven version 

Difference bertween mvn install vs mvn deploy 
	install - it will upload the artifact to local repository (.m2 folder)
	deploy - uploads the package/artifact to the another/remote repository 	
		
Assignment 
	what is maven site ?
	Check and run Archetype 
	How to integrate maven with tomcat ?
	